### Migrations
# v4 to v5

v5 is a major step forward in terms of robustness, power, and *slimness*.  Here's a quick rundown of all changes:

## Changes in v5
- <Badge type="danger" text="breaking" /> `router.fetch` replaces `router.handle` for cleaner exports.
- <Badge type="danger" text="breaking" /> `createCors()` has been replaced with [`cors()`](/itty-router/cors).
- <Badge type="warning" text="change" /> previous `Router` is now preserved as [`IttyRouter`](/itty-router/routers/ittyrouter).
- <Badge type="warning" text="added" /> new fully-compatible [`Router`](/itty-router/routers/router) adds support for stages.
- <Badge type="warning" text="added" /> new batteries-included [`AutoRouter`](/itty-router/routers/autorouter) adds default settings to [`Router`](/itty-router/routers/router).
- <Badge type="warning" text="change" /> TypeScript support has been improved in all of the routers, allowing router-level generics **AND** route-level generic overrides in the same router.

## 1. `router.handle` is deprecated in favor of `router.fetch`
At some point in v4, we began to support (at the cost of extra bytes) boththe original `router.handle` and the newer `router.fetch`, which matches the default export signature of Cloudflare Workers and Bun.  Using `router.fetch` allows you to simply export the router, allowing its internal `.fetch` method to match up to what the runtime expects.

To save bytes, we're dropping support for `router.handle`, preferring `router.fetch` in all cases.

```ts
// PREVIOUSLY
export default {
  fetch: router.handle,
}

// NOW
export default {
  fetch: router.fetch
}

// or simply 
export default router
```

## 2. CORS: [`cors()`](/itty-router/cors) replaces previous `createCors()`
This was a big one.  As some folks have found, the previous CORS solution included a nasty race condition that could affect high-throughput APIs using CORS.  The solution required a breaking change anyway, so we ripped off the bandage and rewrote the entire thing.  By changing the name as well, we're intentionally drawing attention that things have changed.  While this is a non-trivial migration compared to the others, it comes with a series of advantages:

- It now supports the complete options that express.js does, including support for various formats (e.g. string, array of string, RegExp, etc).  We have embraced the industry-standard naming (this is a change).
- It correctly handles the previously-identified race condition
- It correctly handles some other edge-cases not previously addressed
- It handles far-more-complex origin cases & reflection than the previous version
- *We added all this extra power while shaving off 100 bytes.* :fire::fire::fire:

## 3. The Three Routers

v5 preserves the original `Router` as [`IttyRouter`](/itty-router/routers/ittyrouter), and introduces two advanced routers, [`Router`](/itty-router/routers/router) and [`AutoRouter`](/itty-router/routers/autorouter). [`Router`](/itty-router/routers/router) is a 100% backwards-compatible swap, with perfect feature-parity with the previous Router.

Here are the key changes:

### 1. Added functionality to standard [`Router`](/itty-router/routers/router)
- Added: `before` stage - an array of handlers that processes before route-matching
- Added: `catch` - a handler that will catch any thrown error.  Errors thrown during the `finally` stage will naturally not be subject to the `finally` handlers (preventing it from throwing infinitely).
- Added: `finally` stage - an array of handlers that processes after route-matching, and after any error thrown during the `before` stage or route-matching.

#### Example
```ts
import { Router, error, json, withParams } from 'itty-router'

const router = Router({
  before: [withParams],
  catch: error,
  finally: [json],
})

router
  .get('/params/:id', ({ id }) => `Your id is ${id}.`) // withParams already included
  .get('/json', () => [1,2,3]) // auto-formatted as JSON
  .get('/throw', (a) => a.b.c) // safely returns a 500

export default router // CF Workers or Bun
```

### 2. Added [`AutoRouter`](/itty-router/routers/autorouter)
This is a thin wrapper around [`Router`](/itty-router/routers/router), with a few default behaviors included, and a couple additional options for fine-tuned control.

- [`withParams`](/itty-router/api#withparams) is included by default before the `before` stage, allowing direct access of route params from the request itself.
- [`json`](/itty-router/api#json) response formatter is included by default before the `finally` stage, formatting any unformatted responses as JSON.
- A default 404 is included for missed routes.  This is equivalent to `router.all('*', () => error(404)`, and may be changed using the `missing` option (below).
- Added `missing` option to replace the default 404.  Example `{ missing: error(404, 'Are you sure about that?') }`. To prevent any 404, include a `() => {}` no-op here.
- Added `format` option to replace the default formatter of [`json`](/itty-router/api#json).  To prevent all formatting, include a `() => {}` no-op here.

#### Example
```ts
import { AutoRouter } from 'itty-router'

const router = AutoRouter()

router
  .get('/params/:id', ({ id }) => `Your id is ${id}.`) // withParams already included
  .get('/json', () => [1,2,3]) // auto-formatted as JSON
  .get('/throw', (a) => a.b.c) // safely returns a 500

export default router // CF Workers or Bun
```

#### Bigger Example
```js
import { AutoRouter, error } from 'itty-router'

// upstream middleware to embed a start time
const withBenchmarking = (request) => {
  request.start = Date.now()
}

// downstream handler to log it all out
const logger = (res, req) => {
  console.log(res.status, req.url, Date.now() - req.start,  'ms')
}

// now let's create the router
const router = AutoRouter({
  port: 3001,
  before: [withBenchmarking],
  missing: () => error(404, 'Custom 404 message.'),
  finally: [logger],
})

router.get('/', () => 'Success!')

export default router // Bun server on port 3001
```
